---
title: 'Ai4Med: A Biological Digital Twin'
date: 2024-07-10T13:48:14+02:00
summary: 'Swish is an embedded sensor hub to power a digital twin of mobile systems. Siwsh is easy to install and maintain, silent (does not disrupt the mission), and has a low carbon footprint.'
categories:
- Innovation Track
tags:
- health
- generative ai
image: 'protein-deepmind.jpg'
authors: 
- 'Florent Dupont'
- 'Medhi Jendoubi'
- 'Florent Dupont'
---

## Overview

Thanks to its initiatives in the healthcare field, including AI4Med, Thales Services Numériques is now positioned as a credible technological player in this dynamic of precision medicine / 4P medicine (Predictive, Preventive, Personalized and Participative), capable of providing both the clinical and pharmaceutical sectors with state-of-the-art in-silico analysis tools based on the latest generative AI algorithms.

This digital approach is complementary to conventional in-vivo and in-vitro analyses, and can accelerate research into rare diseases through the discovery of specific genetic markers, as well as upstream clinical trials via in-silico screening analyses.

The aim of the 2024 continuation of **AI4Med Biological Digital Twin** track is to integrate the modeling of new biological processes, enabling new predictive capabilities based on developments achieved in 2023 (pathogenicity prediction of genetic mutations, in-silico screening to identify molecules capable of binding to given proteins, drug design). This Digital Twin approach to a complex biological system is particularly innovative, and requires taking into account complex interactions between proteins and multi-molecule associations, as well as the modeling of molecular dynamics.

In line with Thales's focus on artificial intelligence for trust, the development team takes a critical look at the results generated by generative AI models, and has therefore developed a module for making the results explicit, enabling experts (researchers, clinicians or pharmaceutical industry engineers) to better understand and use the tool.

Developments are carried out in partnership with a CNRS research laboratory, which provides an original database and experimental validation capability for the results obtained.
In addition, a demonstrator was set up in 2024, giving our customers direct, autonomous access to the AI4Med platform for initial experimentation. 

This work is part of a rodamap aimed at finalizing the development of the AI4Med building block along two axes:

* **A technical axis** enabling us to move from a demonstrator to a SaaS offering hosted in a secure cloud, with processing functionalities at scale. 
* **An innovation axis** aimed at enriching existing functionalities by taking into account multiple parameters in the modeling performed on the platform.

Business prospects are significant and well identified, with advanced contacts with major players in medical research and the pharmaceutical industry. 

## Contacts

- florent.dupont@thalesgroup.com
- geoffrey.portelli@thalesgroup.com
- medhi.jendoubi@thalesgroup.com

